So building software, it involves a lot of things per se to go right.
And if you think about trying to build something that is big, write software like Microsoft Windows
or the operating system that runs on your phone or anything that is worthwhile, even not at that scale,
but it's software that works.
An application, for instance, there are a lot of things that would have to happen in our code.
There is a lot of compartmentalized pieces of code that needed to happen and work together so that we
can have an application, for instance.
So it is important to find ways in which we can have code snippets or, in this case, entities of codes
that by themselves.
They can do something and they can also interact with other parts of your code.
So this is the basic concept of object oriented programming.
The object oriented programmer, or OPI, relies mostly on creating these entities called objects that
by themselves, they can live, but they can also interact with other objects in a bigger system in
this case.
In our application?
So let's start small.
What is an object now?
If we think of a car, a car contains a lot of different pieces, if you will, for it to be a car.
So it has an engine inside of this engine.
We have other things.
Of course it has wheels, we have brake system, the car has electric system and so forth.
So in a bigger picture, that is what a car is really right is a collection of different little systems
that work.
And together they become a car that you and I can drive.
But we have to understand even deeper if we take a step back, if we look at a car in this case, if
we think conceptually what a car is, a car has to have some sort of properties.
So a property would be, for instance, you know, attributes or or feels right.
Those would be the characteristics of the car.
This is more of the outside view of what a car is for a car, for instance, could have a collar, could
have a model year and so forth.
And then we have what a car does.
So these would be the behaviors of our car could start, our car could start driving, a car can accelerate
and decelerate can break in all these things.
Conceptually, before we have an actual car, we have to have some sort of a map that will dictate what
the actual car would look like and what it would do so in object oriented programming.
This would be a class or a class essentially is a map or a blueprint of an object.
So in this case, we have a plan which is a class that then we can instantiate that into an object,
which will be the actual car.
So it is important to have classes which in turn are instantiated into object because then we can build
these entities.
In this case, these objects that can interact with other objects to create a bigger system, to create
a bigger application and go from there.
Now you notice here, depending on which programming language you coming from or, you know, attributes
property fields is the same thing.
Behavior functions, methods is the same thing.
So essentially, what we're talking about when talk about behavior functions or method, we're talking
about what the car does as explained before and attributes property fields aren't the characteristics
of the car.
OK, let's go back to our code so we can see how can we create a class in codling and instantiate it
to create an actual object?
OK, so back to our code here.
We're going to go outside of our function.
OK, this is going to create a class.
All you say is you say class.
There it is.
Say class and we're going to give it a name.
So classes follow a certain naming convention, which is that means they have to have an upper case
first letter.
So in this case, it was say car, and then we create kind of the basis like that as a class.
This is not an object yet.
So we need to actually create the map, the blueprint, the plan of what a car in the real world in
this case, when becomes an object, when we instantiated what properties and methods will have.
Right.
So let's go and define a property and say Val, and they're going to say color and it's going to be
a string type.
And as we know, we need to initialize with something going to be red.
Now how do we instantiate this class into an object to actually use it?
Well, we go up in Maine.
I'm going to say, Val, my this to say car is equal to a car like this and put parentheses like that.
So now we have our car object.
This is the actual object we've created so I can go ahead and say print, for instance, and say car
dot color.
So I have car.
Dot Dot is the accessory operator here, so we're accessing something from our car object color.
And what do you think is going to print it, see this kind of run and red because we set the color property
of this car in our class to rent and it can set another property as a final model.
It's also going to be a strange I'm going to set that to x m d, something like that.
I don't even know what that is.
It's OK.
So I can do the same thing right now.
Print here.
And once we've instantiate the object, I want to say model actually should say car that model if Iran
can see x empty as the model of the car market.
So we have created a class very simple, say, class and the name of the class.
And of course, we have curly braces to say, OK, now we're going to start the body of the class.
So we have our properties or fields or attributes.
OK.
Same thing.
Now let's go ahead and give some behavior, some function, right?
What this card does or can do and what's say fun?
Ah, there we go.
And it's a drive.
Well, this car must drive.
So what?
We want to happen when we drive?
Well, we want it for now, going to see print land like this and say drive.
So if I come here as a car dot drive, I'm invoking the drive method function in this case, which is
a behavior of this car.
So a car has these properties.
It has this behavior, which is to drive what a car can do if I run this.
We can see drive, vroom.
Now we have a problem here.
The problem is that, well, we can't really change the properties, which is not very exciting because
we want to be able to change our properties of our class or object.
So how do we do that?
Well, first of all, we need to change the vowel to VAR.
You remember, this vowel is immutable, VAR is mutable.
So I'm going to say VAR, VAR like this.
Now I can come up here right after where we instantiate it would create the actual object of car there.
I can say car that color.
I can now set this to something different.
Blue makes a car dot model in this to aim the f like that.
If I run this, you will see because overwriting what we have set before, we're going to get something
different.
This is drive.
Of course, it's going to be different.
Let's go ahead and print actually something real nice here that says color like that model.
So better.
Let's go ahead.
And.
Run.
OK, so car color, blue model, MDF.
There we go.
So now it's way better.
Notice, like I said, because we changes to VAR, the properties we can now access those and edit those
or mutate those change those, which is very exciting.
And it can still, of course, invoke a drive if we want to.